We have faith in Jehovah, and we trust His promises.
And in this, we have a wonderful example in Sarah Abraham's wife.
If you take all the words that are attributed to Sarah in Genesis,
they amount to about a dozen sentences.
Half of them were about Hagar and Ishmael.
The other half about Sarah's own ability to produce a son for Abraham.
Clearly, this promise of producing offspring for Abraham was very important.
But how did Sarah feel about it?
You learn something from her own words,
but we get a very strong clue in this verse in Hebrews chapter 11.
So please turn to Hebrews chapter 11 and stay there in your Bible.
Here's our key verse, 11.
By faith also Sarah received power to conceive offspring,
even when she was past the age since she considered Him faithful who made the promise.
She considered Him faithful who made the promise.
Now that kind of faith doesn't develop overnight.
So let's look at about 25 years of Sarah's life
and see how she retained faith in Jehovah's promises despite hardship,
disappointment, and uncertainty.
Hardship. Sarah is about 65 years old,
and she accompanies her husband Abraham across the Euphrates River south towards the land of Canaan.
It was a long, arduous journey.
But they were powered by Jehovah's promise.
I'm going to make a great nation out of you.
That didn't mean it was easy.
They were still getting used to this new country finding their way around
when the land was gripped by famine,
and to make another long journey all the way down to Egypt.
It gets worse.
Sarah's kidnapped as a potential wife of Pharaoh.
Has the God of promise abandoned them?
By no means.
Jehovah miraculously saves Sarah from the situation,
then gets back safely to the land of Canaan,
and as a family they start to prosper.
What does Sarah learn from this about Jehovah's promises?
Don't focus on the hardship,
but on how Jehovah carries you through it.
Disappointment.
You imagine the excitement of Abraham,
when one night he comes and shares with Sarah
what Jehovah has just told him.
Look up at the stars of heaven.
Can you count them?
So your offspring will become.
And Jehovah also said to Abraham,
your offspring will be afflicted and enslaved for 400 years
before they come back and take possession of the land.
Now, if you're a Sarah, how do you respond?
400 years.
We've been here for 10 years,
and still 400 years,
we won't even see this in our lifetime.
So how does Sarah really respond
when she learned the full extent of this,
of Jehovah's larger promise?
Go back to Hebrews chapter 11,
and verses 11 and 12 talked about Sarah's faith,
and then verse 13 says,
in faith all of these, including Sarah, died,
although they did not receive the fulfillment of the promises,
not in their lifetime.
But they saw them from a distance and welcomed them.
Because of Sarah's faith in Jehovah's promise,
she was willing to be patient to follow Jehovah's timetable.
But this probably wasn't her biggest disappointment.
I just said again,
I'm going to make Abraham's offspring
like the stars of heaven.
And Sarah really wanted that privilege
of producing a son for Abraham to be hers.
But now at the age of 75,
it seemed that her chances of having their privilege
were just slipping away.
What would she do?
Well, she realized here too,
the promise was bigger than her.
And so she took Hagar, her maid servant,
and gave her to Abraham
so that she could give a son to him.
She had faith in Jehovah's promise,
and despite her personal disappointment,
she wanted to do everything she could to support it.
Close on the heels of disappointment or uncertainty.
Do you think as Sarah watched young Ishmael,
Hagar's son, grow up,
that she wondered about her own role,
her own real value.
The next time we meet up with Sarah,
Ishmael is about 13 years of age,
and Sarah is 89.
She and Abraham are entertaining three angelic messages
from Jehovah.
And as she listens to the conversation,
she realizes that this time the message
is not just for Abraham,
it's for her.
This time next year,
Sarah will have a son.
As she listens,
she can't help herself.
She laughs,
and then she denies laughing.
So her laughter was this lack of faith,
disbelief in Jehovah's promise?
No, go back to our key verse,
because this is exactly where it comes in, verse 11.
By faith, Sarah received power
to conceive offspring
since she considered him faithful
who made the promise.
She always had that faith.
Now, imagine Sarah's joy.
She is raising a young son
with the beautiful spiritual disposition.
This is exactly the one,
the right disposition
to carry on Jehovah's great promise.
This is her son.
Sarah didn't live long enough
to see Isaac, Mary, Rebecca,
or to have his twin boys.
But when she wakes up in the paradise,
she'll be able to find out all of that,
and she will learn the remarkable role
that Jehovah always had in mind for her in his purpose.
But going back,
how did Sarah cope with those years of uncertainty?
Let's go back to Hebrews 11,
because we've described Sarah
as a woman of faith in Jehovah's promises.
Now, a few verses earlier, in verse 6,
this is an important aspect of faith.
Paul says,
moreover, without faith,
it is impossible to please God well.
For whoever approaches God must believe,
must believe that he is,
and that he becomes the rewarder
of those earnestly seeking him.
Now, Sarah didn't always know
how Jehovah would reward her or when,
but she did have this kind of faith,
and so she believed in Jehovah
as the rewarder and the fulfiller of promises.
So what have we learned from Sarah
when it comes to Jehovah's promises?
We live hardship,
but that's not where we focus.
We focus on how Jehovah's helping us.
If we experience personal disappointment,
we realize Jehovah's promises bigger than us.
We patiently wait on Jehovah,
and we humbly do what we can to support his great work.
We'll face uncertainty,
but in all things,
we trust our rewarder and his promises.
Every day,
we rely on the fact
that Jehovah has made promises,
and he fulfills them on our behalf.
Jehovah never lets us down.
And the best is yet to come.
We know this,
because like Sarah,
we consider him faithful,
who made the promise.